This article is about open source and communities. It's a work in progress. 

## Open madness  

Version 1.0 of the [community participation guideline](http://www.mozilla.org/about/policies/participation.html) is out and released. It talks about inclusion and diversity and very much aligned with _PROJECT_OPEN_NAME_ roots and the mission. But it is not the mission and it makes something else in the project as it represents _PROJECT_OPEN_NAME_'s appraoch to solve conflicts and to make a healthier and stronger community — thus it thrives for sucess of the project. 

I think this was a good catch for the inclusionary effort, for sure. And I am so thankful _PROJECT_OPEN_NAME_ reached this level of maturity — to recognise these things and to allow growth and to learn. I think many of the problems I see — tensions — are originated in subtle ways and some of them may be related with the fact some open source projects are multi-faceted — I am not saying two faces but let's start with a two faces hypothesis. One is an internal and strategic and goal-oriented approach where discussions go far but there is an agenda to distill discussions to action. This world is also tied with partnerships and it aims an action-potential. 

So think of a neuron that has some smaller legs and these legs are connected with partners and internal staff or close contributors, key leaders if you will. This center is a sort of dispatcher to signals and they communicate towards the mass of contributors and the open community. This layer recognises that it needs a symbiotic relationship with the community but they also believe that community needs leadership. They are tied in the world of an agenda — as they communicate more effectively with partners and its other core components — but they dispatch their claims to the community and to the open. And I say but because it not always there is a desired effect. The impact in the community layer is real nevertheless and it is real in a different way and not always can be projected or designed. Strategic planning can be effective as well roadmap and vision. But it is still a human powered central and similarly to a neuron it will be also reactive to incoming signals — partners and core pieces. When something comes in you will see an effect coming out and sometimes it is going to be far out. The effect is different and can be predictable in some cases but now all the cases. This is a what you get is not what you going to see experience. 

It is the action-potential — internals pulsing waves to the offshore. And waves are propagated to reach boats and far lands. 

These waves are to reach out to far away places — think the many communities in the project. They will give propulsion to many boats and it is in the boat effort that things can be done. When everyone is together and they stick their flags and they are to emerge and it is the action potential. Enthusiasm is shown and can be seen from far and it is a world of big waves and big hopes. The driving force is kept alive and it propagates because in the wild the communication is not as internal as it is back the shore. Languages are too different and backgrounds are vivid — some may call enthusiasm. It is the action potential that sticks because the message is shortened and it is condensed. It has to stick and it has to navigate and it needs to empower them to raise their flags to meet new territories to educate and to promote the inclusion the best their can — an inclusion towards the action potential or an inclusion towards the internals? It is up to you any person to enter any space but you will see faces changing if you want to reach out to the layers upstream. There in the core and it is a high heat different world. They see some of the wave signals bouncing back – a reflection of what goes on from the far lands. Not always the reflection is what it was once said in the shore. Reflection comes in many ways — from beautiful waves to tsunamis and it is the very nature of a world with many faces. 

